Ethereum has been closely tracking Bitcoin’s price action for the past few days, with its upwards momentum stalling as Bitcoin fails to break above its near-term resistance level.
One prominent crypto analyst is now noting that he believes Ethereum may post major gains against its BTC trading pair in the near-term, but he is also noting that it is showing some signs of bearishness against USD.
At the time of writing, Ethereum is trading up 1% at its current price of just under $180, which marks a slight retrace from its daily highs of $184 that were set yesterday when Bitcoin surged to highs of just under $8,400, which is where it met insurmountable resistance.
Although Ethereum has been developing a strong correlation with Bitcoin over the past few days, it is highly probable that major altcoins like ETH will require a further drop in Bitcoin’s dominance over the markets in order for there to be a sustainable rally, as the current lack of fresh capital within the markets makes it a zero sum game.
With that being said, there is a possibility that altcoins will begin surging against their Bitcoin trading pairs while not posting noteworthy gains against their USD trading pairs.
Josh Rager, a popular crypto analyst on Twitter, spoke about this possibility in a recent tweet while looking at Ethereum’s chart, noting that ETH could surge as much as 15% against BTC in the near-term, but also adding that it currently looks bearish against USD.
“$ETHBTC pair looks to be at a resistance but the good news is that price has flipped the 20MA that has held price down into a support. A break above the current level could lead ETH to a 13% to 15% gain against Bitcoin. The ETHUSD pair doesn’t look so hot though – just heads up,” he explained while pointing to the below chart.
$ETHBTC pair looks to be at a resistance but the good news is that price has flipped the 20MA that has held price down into a support
A break above the current level could lead ETH to a 13% to 15% gain against Bitcoin
The ETHUSD pair doesn't look so hot though – just heads up pic.twitter.com/zqrV2zy4T1

The coming few days will likely elucidate the future direction that altcoins like Ethereum will head next, as Bitcoin’s near-term price action and dominance over the markets may soon grow clear as it moves out of its recent consolidation phase.
