Berlin-based fintech firm Neufund is now launching various public offerings through its tokenized equity platform after being approved by Liechtenstein’s financial regulators to conduct these types of events.
As mentioned on its official website,
“[Neufund] democratizes access to capital for innovators and entrepreneurs and makes investing easy, safe and accessible to everyone.”
The company aims to make finance transparent.
“Everyone in, nobody out. Everyone deserves equal access to investment and fundraising opportunities.”
On September 16, Neufund introduced public offerings of tokenized equity for the retail sector.
The company’s co-founder and CEO Zoe Adammovicz noted that Neufund “delivers on its promise to democratize access to funding for entrepreneurs globally” following regulatory clearance from the Financial Monetary Authority of Liechtenstein.
Minimum ticket sizes are 10 euros.
Commenting on the launch of the new initiative, Adamovicz remarked:
“It’s a big day – not just for Neufund, but business and finance.”
Only accredited US-based investors can participate in Neufund’s public offerings.
Our Head of Strategic Partnerships, Alex Molé presents the idea behind Neufund at the “Fintech 4 Impact” by @N3XTCODER. Thank you for the invitation! pic.twitter.com/VZr7rjShgV
— neufundorg (@neufundorg) September 3, 2019


Unlike initial coin offerings (ICOs) and most other types of tokenized financial products, Neufund’s investment products represent legally binding equity in a company.
Greyp, an electric mobility platform, is the first retail public offering being launched.
Neufund’s management revealed that $16 million in total capital has been deployed through the platform.
Neufund’s protocol has been developed on the Ethereum (ETH) network. It features customized smart contracts that were created according to the ERC-20 token standard.
As one of the most active entities on the Ethereum blockchain, Neufund has been working on its codebase for the past three years.
Founded in 2016, Neufund is a blockchain-powered and investor-directed platform that aims to bridge the gap between the cryptocurrency and equity sector.
As noted on its official website, the company is “driven by the mission to open finance to all.”
Fifth Force GmbH, the company that has created the brand, is the primary platform developer and the main contributor behind the idea.
The firm’s partners include Malta-based crypto exchange Binance, BitBay, Blocktrade, Ledger, Bitcratic, and the Malta Stock Exchange.
Neufund’s management advises governments on distributed ledger technology regulation, supports various open-source projects, and educates financial communities.
On December 16, 2018 the company closed its first Equity Token Offering. Notably, Neufund became the world’s first issuance platform to conduct an offering of tokenized equity on a public blockchain.
The firm reportedly raised around €3.4 million through it first offering.
